---
title: Tableau
date: 2020-10-19
tags:
  - Tableau
  - Notes
  - Data Visualization
author: Ash
location: Wooli Creek, Sydney  
---


> This is a note in memory of the experience when I choosed to learn Data Visualization and Tableau in one week to help somedan.

## 1. Filter

### 1.1. only apply to slected sheet

    As we know, ne filter can be used across different sheets. but sometimes this create chaos between various sheets

So, we can click "apply this filter to" and only apply them to the filter you selected, and you can eaisly change this later .

::: danger attention
If you want to use a filter to different sheets. These sheets must using same data source
:::

### 1.2. Top 5 in this filter

    When applying a filter. You can choose limitation of the data you want. You can chooose limits top 5 data base on specif measure.

## 2. Basic

### 2.1. Calculated Field
If you want to do any thing relevent to calculation( Even includes change the data type by STR(Value)). Then you can create a new calculated field to do that.

> A good example of using caculated field and tranfer it to filter
https://www.tableau.com/about/blog/2012/7/filtering-parameters-18326

### 2.2. duel Axis

Create two axis and then you can select duel axis to combine them 

After that. Synchronize Axis is a good way to align them to use same scale.

### 2.3. Measure values and measure names

The **Measure Values** field contains all the measures in your data, collected into a single field with continuous values. Drag individual measure fields out of the Measure Values card to remove them from the view.

The **Measure Names** field contains the names of all measures in your data, collected into a single field with discrete values.